## NCAA Tournament Final Four Prediction - The R Version.

### The problem that I have is that I am overly competitive. Every year, my family competes together in a bracket for March Madness, with the winner getting to be treated by the family to a lunch of their choosing. For many years, I have been the far and away winner of this pool (competition). This year, however, I was unsuccessful in winning the family pool. I would like to have my title back. In wanting to return to glory, I have decided that I will use exploratory data analysis, statistics, and R programming to see if patterns exists that will help me choose the Final Four teams of the men’s basketball tournament. By consistently and correctly predicting the Final Four teams of the tournament, it will all but ensure that I continue my reign as the family basketball bracket picking champion.
### Why would anyone besides me think that this is important? The ability to pick teams for the college basketball tournament has turned into a lucrative exercise. Even ESPN will award a winner $1 million if they are able to choose correctly every game during the tournament. By the way, there is a 1 in 9,223,372,036,854,775,808 chance of doing this, but it’s greater than 0. By being able to choose the teams consistently that will reach the Final Four, there is real money to be had. If you do a Google search on “March Madness Bracket Contests,” you will see grand prizes of cash money and trips to Hawaii and Las Vegas. This is a data science problem because it includes a lot of probability, and there are many metrics that are kept with college basketball teams throughout the course of a season upon which statistical analysis can be performed.
